**About XFR Collective**

XFR Collective is a non-profit organization that partners with artists, activists, individuals, and groups to lower the barriers to preserving at-risk audiovisual media – especially unseen, unheard, or marginalized works – by providing low-cost digitization services and fostering a community of support for archiving and access through education, research, and cultural engagement. Our institutional partners so far have included Visual AIDS, WITNESS, New York Women in Film and Television, Elevator Repair Service Theatre, Collaborative Projects, Inc., La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club, Le Petit Versailles Community Garden, and The MIX Festival. We are a 501(c)3. (For more about XFR Collective, see our website, xfrcollective.wordpress.com/)

XFR Collective developed following XFR STN, an exhibition presented in 2013 by the New Museum of Contemporary Art.  Alan Moore proposed "XFR STN" to the museum as a public preservation experiment especially to preserve the materials of the Monday/Wednesday/Friday Video Club (M/W/F), which distributed independent film and video by the artists’ group Colab (Collaborate Projects, Inc.) and by other Lower East Side filmmakers from 1986 to 2000 on VHS at consumer prices. After the close of XFR STN, an eight-week exhibit, several filmmakers and archivists were inspired by the success of the exhibition and the clear community need and enthusiasm for this work to find ways to continue it.

The core members of XFR Collective come from a variety of backgrounds with a multitude of combined experiences, including but not limited to public history, production in video and media arts, collection management practices, archiving and preservation services, and project development.

Among the Collective’s core members are:

**Ashley Blewer**, an audiovisual archivist, technologist, and enthusiast. She works as an Applications Developer at the New York Public Library, formerly as a web developer and digital archives consultant. She cares about education (especially in tech), access (especially to moving images), the act of creation (especially on the web), and good archival practice (especially with digital formats). She holds an MLIS (Archives) and BA (Graphic Design) from the University of South Carolina. She is an active contributor to MediaConch, a digital video file conformance checker software project under[ PREFORMA](http://www.preforma-project.eu/), funded by the European Commission FP7-ICT Programme.

**Andrea Callard**, an artist and filmmaker working in film, video, sound as well as photography, installation, and drawing.  She was one of the original members of Collaborative Projects (Colab), and helped produce the Times Square Show of 1980.  Her films have screened at museums, festivals and symposia around the world.  Currently Callard produces media for Green Planet 21, documenting and promoting their industrial recycling and sustainability initiatives.

**Carmel Curtis, **a recent graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation Masters program. For her thesis she looked at historical and contemporary access to audiovisual materials for people who have the misfortune of being incarcerated in the United States. With experience in libraries, archives, production environments, and film festivals, Carmel’s passions are in increasing community access to moving image materials. She recently began her term as a National Digital Stewardship Resident at the Brooklyn Academy of Music’s Archive on a project to implement best practices and improve the workflow for the access and preservation of born-digital materials created at BAM.

**Rebecca Fraimow**, formerly a National Digital Stewardship Resident and currently an Archivist at WGBH. In the past, Rebecca has performed video preservation and archival services for the Dance Heritage Coalition, Mercer Media, Seahorse Films, Deep Dish Television, and the New Museum’s XFR STN exhibit on media preservation. Rebecca holds an M.A. in Moving Image Archiving and Preservation from NYU and a B.A. in English from Stanford University.

**Julia Kim,** formerly a National Digital Stewardship Resident hosted at NYU, and currently Folklife Specialist (Digital Assets Management) at the Library of Congress. She formerly served as a technical intern on the New Museum’s XFR STN exhibit. She has also worked on collections at Anthology Film Archive and Fales Library and Special Collections, specializing in cataloging, drafting streaming video agreements, creating finding aids, and digitizing audio material. She has chaired and curated "[Surveillance](http://wdavh.tumblr.com/)," a symposium for the UNESCO World Day for Audiovisual Heritage in October. Julia has also managed the repatriation of Colombian film heritage materials back to Proimágenes and co-organized[ APEX 2013 in Bogota Colombia](http://http//apexbogota.wordpress.com/) as well as APEX 2014 in Uruguay. She received her B.A. in Religious Studies and Visual Arts from Columbia University and expects her M.A. from NYU’s Moving Image and Archiving Preservation Program in October 2014.

**Marie Lascu**, Audiovisual Archivist for[ Crowing Rooster Arts](http://crowingrooster.org/), a non-profit organization based in Chinatown that has spent 20 years documenting the arts and political struggles of Haiti. She is a graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation (MIAP) M.A. Program. As a co-founder and member of[ Activists Archivists](http://activist-archivists.org/wp/) (2011-2015), she worked with[ Third World Newsreel](https://www.twn.org/) on preservation efforts for their 16mm Newsreel Collection – which included shelving for film reels, inventorying film elements, and database implementation. She has assisted with personal collections of artists such as[ Melinda Camber Porter](http://www.camberporter.org/bio.html),[ Diane Bonder](http://dianebonder.com/), and[ Liz Magic Laser](http://www.lizmagiclaser.com/), and co-organized the[ 2015 Personal Digital Archiving Conference](http://personaldigitalarchiving.com/).

**Lorena Ramírez-López, **a recent graduate from the Moving Image Archiving and Preservation program at New York University. She also received her Bachelors at NYU in both the Cinema Studies and Spanish department where she wrote her undergraduate honors thesis ("Ñe Hendu Kiriri: Listening to Silence in Four Recent Paraguayan Films") for the Department of Spanish and Portuguese Languages and Literatures. Her main focus is on digital preservation, specifically web archiving, but has also been involved with international archives as part of NYU’s [Audiovisual Preservation Exchange (APEX) program](https://apexnyu.wordpress.com/): Montevideo, Uruguay in 2014 (group member of[ FAC](https://es-la.facebook.com/Fundacion.de.Arte.Contemporaneo)) and Buenos Aires, Argentina 2015 (co-organizer of APEX) and spent her summer internship at the Museu de Arte Moderna in Rio de Janiero, Brazil.

**Kristin MacDonough**, Digitization Specialist at Video Data Bank in Chicago.  She is also the Bay Area Video Coalition’s Coordinator for the AV Artifact Atlas, a community-based online resource used to identify and describe anomalies found in audio and video signals. Focusing on material and intellectual accessibility, Kristin has worked as a preservation and archival consultant for independent content creators and caretakers of AV materials and conducted project-based work with organizations such as New Museum (*XFR STN* exhibition), Deep Dish TV, The Standby Program, as well as the Fundación Patrimonio Filmico Colombiano in Bogotá and the Universidad Católica del Uruguay in Montevideo through NYU’s Audiovisual Preservation Exchange (APEX) program.

**Rachel Mattson**, the Manager of Special Projects in the Archives at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club. Mattson is a hybrid historian/archivist/educator/writer, and holds a PhD in U.S. History from NYU (2004) and an MLIS from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign (2014), where she was a Henderson Fellow in Preservation Studies. She has taught at the graduate and undergraduate levels at New York University, SUNY-New Paltz, and the University of Illinois, and as a teacher-educator supporting creative educational practice in New York’s high schools. Her writing has appeared in the *Radical History Review,* the *Scholar and the Feminist,* and in books published by Routledge and Thread Makes Blanket Press, among other publications.

**Yvonne Ng**, Senior Archivist at[ WITNESS](http://witness.org), where she manages a collection of human rights video and develops training materials on video archiving for human rights activists. She has led and co-facilitated numerous trainings and workshops on personal and community archiving, both locally and internationally. Yvonne frequently writes and speaks as an advocate for audiovisual archives and the people who create and maintain them. She is a graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archiving and Preservation M.A. program, and previously worked with NDIIPP’s Preserving Digital Public Television project, and at NYU Libraries, NYPL, and Canadian Filmmakers’ Distribution Centre.

**Pamela Vizner, **who works with artist and film preservationist[ Bill Brand](http://bboptics.com/) and is the Audiovisual Archivist at[ IndieCollect](http://indiecollect.org/).  She is a recent graduate of NYU’s Moving Image Archive and Preservation Program, and played a major role in organizing the two most recent iterations of NYU’s[ Audiovisual Preservation Exchange (APEX) program](https://apexnyu.wordpress.com/), leading students on preservation projects with the Fundación Patrimonio Filmico Colombiano in Bogotá and the Universidad Católica del Uruguay in Montevideo.

			

