## How to Be  
The intent of this document is to outline what conduct is expected of those who work with XFR Collective as a member, partner, advisor, or volunteer as well as those who participate or attend XFR Collective related screenings, events, workshops, etc. This document also provides steps that individuals can, and XFR Collective will, take in the event of a violation of the Code of Conduct. 

XFR Collective strives to be a welcoming organization that actively works towards contributing to a culture mindful of anti-oppressive, intersectionally feminist, community-based approaches to learning. XFR Collective is dedicated to providing collaborative experiences that are free from all forms of harassment, and inclusive of all people. Small actions you can take (as a member, partner, or participant of any sort) will help us meet this goal. For instance, we suggest: listening as much as you speak and remembering that colleagues may have expertise you are unaware of; encouraging and yielding the floor to those whose viewpoints may be under-represented in a group; using welcoming language, for instance by honoring pronoun preferences and favoring gender-neutral collective nouns (“people,” not “guys”); accepting critique graciously and offering it constructively; giving credit where it is due; seeking concrete ways to make physical spaces and online resources more universally accessible, welcoming, and harassment-free; and staying alert to the welfare of those around you.

Likewise, it is important to understand the range of behaviors that may constitute harassment. Harassment can include unwelcome or offensive verbal comments or nonverbal expressions related to: age; appearance or body size; employment or military status; ethnicity; gender identity or expression; individual lifestyles; marital status; national origin; immigration status; physical or cognitive ability; political affiliation; sexual orientation; race; or religion. Harassment can also include use of sexual and/or discriminatory images in public spaces (including online); deliberate intimidation; stalking; following; harassing photography or recording; sustained disruption of talks or other events; bullying behavior; inappropriate physical contact; and unwelcome sexual attention in any form. Sexual, discriminatory, or potentially triggering language and imagery is generally inappropriate for any XFR related workspace or event. 

This policy is not intended to constrain responsible scholarly or professional discourse and debate. We welcome engagement with difficult topics, done with respect and care. 

## What to Do  
That said, we will not tolerate harassment or assault of XFR Collective community members in any form. By “community members”, we are referring to any non-XFR member participants of any XFR Collective-related, sponsored, or hosted events, in public spaces and personal spaces, which includes online spaces. 

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact a core member of XFR Collective immediately, in person, via email to the entire collective, or privately through other means, such as direct messages on social media. If you do not feel comfortable contacting XFR Collective directly, please fill out [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScUQFxQY41PsDp6XByw6g2ALoHK72MoJGu-k1bxXmsNbLg7rw/viewform). This form was created by XFR to give those who need it the option of simply submitting an instance of a violation of the Code of Conduct which the option of retaining anonymity. The form will also eventually offer you the ability to contact a designated person outside XFR Collective to assist you in further reporting and steps, we aim to have this process in place by **October 1, 2017.**

If you are a core member of XFR Collective, and  have experienced violations of the Code of Conduct, you should contact another member of the collective as soon as you are able.  If you do not feel comfortable contacting another member of XFR Collective, please use the anonymous form provided which will give you the option to contact a designated person outside of XFR Collective to assist you in further reporting and steps. If you do not select the option to contact a designated person, we can't follow up on an anonymous report with you directly, but we will fully investigate it and take whatever action is necessary to prevent a recurrence.

## What XFR will do  
Participants of XFR Collective-related events and participants in XFR-Collective related workspaces, be they members, partners, advisors, volunteers, or online or in-person attendees of educational or social events who are asked by a XFR Collective member or the Collective as a whole, either in-person or via online communication to stop harassing or performing intimidating behaviors are expected to comply immediately.

If the person and/or person(s) asked to stop the harassing behavior do not comply immediately and meaningfully, violators of this Code of Conduct may be sanctioned or expelled at the discretion of the majority of XFR Collective core members and the victim or reporter of a code of conduct violation, through a vote by core Collective members. In this voting process, the victim or reporter of the violation will have a choice as to whether or not they want to be named in the discussion and voting process. If the victim or reporter of the violation came to a member of XFR Collective directly rather than via a designated person outside the Collective but wants to remain anonymous, the core XFR Collective member is required to maintain that person’s anonymity in the context of the group vote and discussion. 

In addition to perpetrators being warned, sanctioned, or expelled from XFR Collective events and activities, the victim or reporter of a code of conduct violation may choose to pursue accountability processes that may include mediation, legal action, or any other possible steps requested. XFR Collective is committed to supporting these processes to the best of our ability by assisting in finding mediators, researching and undertaking actions that validate victims and their needs, or any other processes requested by victims. 

To report incidents of any sort following in the absence of a XFR Collective core member, please contact xfrcollective@gmail.com.

We value your presence and constructive participation in our shared community, and thank you for your attention to the comfort and safety of fellow XFR Collective participants. If you have ideas or feedback on how our Code of Conduct can be improved, please email us! We are happy to hear your thoughts! This Code of Conduct is considered a living document and is subject to change.

Sources of inspiration: This document was adapted from the Digital Library Federation Code (DLF) of Conduct. The DLF received inspiration from: Geek Feminism; DHSI; Code4Lib; ALA; LITA; AMIA; SAA; US OpenGLAM; ADHO; Recurse Center; Contributor Covenant; Vox Media; Scholars’ Lab. 

Re-use: This document available under a CC-BY-NC 4.0 license. Please feel free to adapt and re-use for your conference, event, or organization!
